---
title: Arez 0.25 released
author: Arez Project
authorURL: https://github.com/arez
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/arez/arez/compare/v0.24...v0.25)

Changes in this release:

##### Fixed
* **\[core\]** When exceptions are thrown when calculating the value for `ComputedValue`, the `ComputedValue`
  was marked as in error and a null was returned to the caller. This could mislead the observer into thinking
  that the state was valid and/or may lead to hard to track down errors such as `NullPointerException`s when
  the components cast the result of `ComputedValue` to a primitive value. This has been fixed so that if a
  computation results in an exception then this exception will be cached for the `ComputedValue` and thrown
  for the caller to handle. Subsequent invocations of `ComputedValue.get()` will re-throw the same exception
  if the `ComputedValue` is still in a state of `UP_TO_DATE`. If the `ComputedValue` invokes compute again
  and produces another exception then the toolkit assumes that the `ComputedValue` is in the same error state
  and does not transition dependencies from `POSSIBLY_STALE` to `STALE`.
* **\[extras\]** Ensure that the `dispose()` method on `org.realityforge.arez.extras.Watcher` is performed in a
  single transaction. This makes sure that the `Watcher` does not react whilst partially disposed.
* **\[core\]** Ensure that `ComputedValue.dispose()` never attempts to dispose value multiple times by moving
  the setting of the `_disposed` flag to the top of the method.
* **\[core\]** If an `Observable` is disposed that is a derivation of a `ComputedValue` then avoid generating a
  `ObservableDisposedEvent` spy event aso the `ComputedValueDisposedEvent` is sufficient to indicate that it
  is being disposed.
* **\[core\]** When disposing a `ComputedValue`, ensure the spy event indicating it has been disposes is disposed
  prior to disposing the associated `Observer` and `Observable`.
* **\[core\]** If an `Observable` is disposed that is a derivation of a `ComputedValue` then ensure that the
  associated `Observer` and `ComputedValue` are also disposed.
* **\[core\]** Move the code that propagates the spy event when a `Observable` is disposed outside of the
  transaction so that event ordering is consistent across different scenarios.
* **\[core\]** Always wrap the `Observable.dispose()` method in it's own transaction, regardless of whether there
  is currently a transaction active.
* **\[annotations\]** Made sure that the return value from an `@ObservableRef` annotated method could accept a
  type parameter. The bug was introduced in v0.23 when `Observable` started to take a type parameter but the annotation
  processing code had not been updated to reflect change.
* **\[core\]** Fix the generics on the `ArezContext.createObservable(...)` methods to pass the type parameter to
  observable and make sure the type parameter is documented.
* **\[annotations\]** Enforced naming convention for `type` parameter of the `@ArezComponent` annotation.

##### Added
* **\[core\]** Add the `ArezContext.createObservable()` method that will synthesize the observable name if
  names are enabled.
* Update the release process so that every release creates a "Github Release" and any open milestone that
  matches the release is closed.
* **\[core\]** Introduce the concept of [Native Components](https://arez.github.io/native_components). Native
  components allow the explicit representation of components within the core of Arez. This is in contrast to the
  implicit representation of components that already exists as a result of the `@ArezComponent` annotation and the
  annotation processor. Native components can be enabled or disabled at compile time and if disabled will have no
  performance impact. Native components make it possible to introspect the component structure at runtime. This
  feature is designed to enable the construction of DevTools and as such native components are enabled by default
  in development mode and disabled in production mode.
* **\[annotations\]** Add the `@ComputedValueRef` annotation to allow the reactive component to get access to
  the underling `ComputedValue` instance for a `@Computed` annotated property. This is useful for framework authors
  who need access to low level primitives but still want to make use of the arez component model.
* **\[core\]** Expose the `Observable` and `ComputedValue` property introspectors introduced in v0.23 via the spy
  interface. This is designed to enable the ability to write DevTools that introspects these values.
* **\[core\]** Define registries for all instances of `Observer`, `Observable` and `ComputedValue` that are not
  contained by a `Component`. These registries are exposed via the spy interface. As the registries add significant
  overhead, provide a configuration setting `arez.enable_registries` that is disabled by default but is enabled
  in development mode.

##### Changed
* 💥 **\[annotations\]** Actually remove `disposable` parameter from the `@ArezComponent` as v0.24 just removed
  all the associated functionality and made the parameter ignored.
* 💥 **\[core\]** Changed the type of the first parameter of `ObserverErrorHandler.onObserverError` from `Node`
  to `Observer`. It was originally `Node` as `Observer` was a package private type but now that `Observer` is public
  it can be exposed as part of the public API.
* **\[extras\]** Changed the `org.realityforge.arez.extras.Watcher` class from being a handcrafted reactive component
  to being a class annotated with `@ArezComponent` and managed using the standard reactive infrastructure.
* 💥 **\[extras\]** Stopped the `org.realityforge.arez.extras.Watcher` class from extending `Node` as it is really
  a component rather than a node. This means that the `ArezExtras.when(...)` functions need to return a `Disposable`
  rather than a `Node`.
* 💥 **\[extras\]** Changed the effect of the `Watcher` class from type `Procedure` to `SafeProcedure` as it is not
  expected to throw an exception as it would be swallowed by the framework. This forces the toolkit users to handle
  any error scenarios explicitly.
* **\[core\]** Change the invariant for enforcing transaction type from an `invariant` to a `apiInvariant` so that
  can disable invariants but keep apiInvariants enabled and still invariant. This is useful for downstream consumers.
* 💥 **\[annotations\]** Remove `singleton` parameter from the `@ArezComponent` annotation. The only valid use case
  was to control whether the names generated in enhanced component classes included the id of the component in the
  name. It significantly increased the complexity of code in generators as there was two separate code paths, one for
  when `singleton=true` and one for where `singleton=false`. It was also used to stop toolkit users from using
  certain annotations when `singleton=true` (i.e. You could not use `@ContainerId`, `@ContainerName`, `@Repository`).
  These were arbitrary design decisions and the constraint has been removed. The enhanced component classes will now
  always generate name helper methods and a synthetic component id if none has been specified. This has simplified
  the annotation processor and the generated code. To restore the ability to elide the id from the component name,
  the parameter `nameIncludesId=false` is now supported on the `@ArezComponent` annotation.
* 💥 **\[annotations\]** Rename `name` parameter on `@ArezComponent` to `type` to correctly reflect semantics.
* 💥 **\[core\]** Removed the `Zone.activate()` and `Zone.deactivate()` methods and replace them with
  `Zone.run(Procedure)`, `Zone.run(Function)`, `Zone.safeRun(SafeProcedure)` and `Zone.safeRun(SafeFunction)` as
  these methods eliminate the need to correct pair activate and deactivate calls.
