---
title: Arez 0.107 released
author: Arez Project
authorURL: https://github.com/arez
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/arez/arez/compare/v0.106...v0.107)

Changes in this release:

* **\[processor\]** The invariant check generated to link references was being generated outside of the
  associated guard. This could result in dead-code not being eliminated in GWT2.x and triggered warnings
  in source code analysis programs such as spotbugs.
* **\[gwt-output-qa\]** Add assertion to verify that the `arez.*Info` interfaces are not present if
  `Arez.areSpiesEnabled()` returns false.
* **\[core\]** Remove the `onDispose` parameter from the `ArezContext.autorun(...)` methods and the
  `ArezContext.computed(...)` methods. This hook method was never used from within the component model
  and infrequently used (if ever) from the raw API. Removing it reduced code complexity and size.
* **\[core\]** Add invariant to ensure that the parameter `runImmediately` parameter can only be `true`
  if `keepAlive` parameter is `true` when creating computed values via the `ArezContext.computed(...)`
  methods.
* **\[core\]** Changed the default value for the `runImmediately` parameter passed to the
  `ArezContext.autorun(...)` to be `true`. Previously the default value was `false` if the `autorun(...)`
   method variant had a `component` parameter but otherwise the default value was `true`.
* **\[core\]** Refactor the internal representation of runtime and configuration flags within `arez.Observer`
  instances. Previously the internal state was represented by several internal variables. This resulted in
  significant memory pressure when an application consisted of many observers. These configuration values
  have been collapsed into a single bit field. The fields that were collapsed include the configuration
  values: `_mode`, `_priority`, `_observeLowerPriorityDependencies`, `_canNestActions` and
  `_arezOnlyDependencies`. The runtime fields collapsed into the bit field include: `_state`, `_scheduled` and
  `_executeTrackedNext`. The `ComputedValue._keepAlive` field has also been merged into the bit field.
* **\[core\]** Remove the method `Spy.getObservers(ObservableValue)` that was replaced by `ObservableValueInfo.getObservers()`.
* **\[core\]** Remove the method `Spy.asComputedValue(ObservableValue)` that was replaced by `ObservableValueInfo.asComputedValue()`.
* **\[core\]** Remove the method `Spy.asComputedValue(ObservableValue)` that was replaced by `ObservableValueInfo.asComputedValue()`.
* **\[core\]** Remove the method `Spy.getComponent(ObservableValue)` that was replaced by `ObservableValueInfo.getComponent()`.
* **\[core\]** Remove the method `Spy.getValue(ObservableValue)` that was replaced by `ObservableValueInfo.getValue()`.
* **\[core\]** Remove the method `Spy.hasAccessor(ObservableValue)` that was replaced by `ObservableValueInfo.hasAccessor()`.
* **\[core\]** Remove the method `Spy.hasMutator(ObservableValue)` that was replaced by `ObservableValueInfo.hasMutator()`.
* **\[core\]** Remove the method `Spy.setValue(ObservableValue,Object)` that was replaced by `ObservableValueInfo.setValue(Object)`.
* **\[core\]** Remove the method `Spy.isReadOnly(Observer)` that was replaced by `ObserverInfo.isReadOnly()`.
* **\[core\]** Remove the method `Spy.isScheduled(Observer)` that was replaced by `ObserverInfo.isScheduled()`.
* **\[core\]** Remove the method `Spy.isRunning(Observer)` that was replaced by `ObserverInfo.isRunning()`.
* **\[core\]** Remove the method `Spy.getDependencies(Observer)` that was replaced by `ObserverInfo.getDependencies()`.
* **\[core\]** Remove the method `Spy.asComputedValue(Observer)` that was replaced by `ObserverInfo.asComputedValue()`.
* **\[core\]** Remove the method `Spy.isComputedValue(Observer)` that was replaced by `ObserverInfo.isComputedValue()`.
* **\[core\]** Remove the method `Spy.getComponent(Observer)` that was replaced by `ObserverInfo.getComponent()`.
* **\[core\]** Remove the method `Spy.isComputing(ComputedValue)` that was replaced by `ComputedValueInfo.isComputing()`.
* **\[core\]** Remove the method `Spy.getDependencies(ComputedValue)` that was replaced by `ComputedValueInfo.getDependencies()`.
* **\[core\]** Remove the method `Spy.getComponent(ComputedValue)` that was replaced by `ComputedValueInfo.getComponent()`.
* **\[core\]** Remove the method `Spy.isActive(ComputedValue)` that was replaced by `ComputedValueInfo.isActive()`.
* **\[core\]** Remove the method `Spy.getObservers(ComputedValue)` that was replaced by `ComputedValueInfo.getObservers()`.
* **\[core\]** Remove the method `Spy.getValue(ComputedValue)` that was replaced by `ComputedValueInfo.getValue()`.
* **\[core\]** Rename the `ArezContext.autorun(...)` methods to `ArezContext.observer(...)` and change the way
  configuration is passed into to be flags so that it matches the underlying representation of configuration.
* **\[core\]** Refactor the `ArezContext.tracker(...)` methods to change the way configuration is passed into to
  be flags so that it matches the underlying representation of configuration.
* **\[core\]** Refactor the internal representation of configuration flags within `arez.component.MemoizeCache` to
  use a bit mask so it is easy to pass flags when creating the underlying `ComputedValue` instances.
* **\[core\]** Refactor the `ArezContext.computed(...)` methods to change the way configuration is passed into to
  be flags so that it matches the underlying representation of configuration.
* **\[core\]** Move `arez.Spy` to `arez.spy.Spy` and `arez.SpyEventHandler` to `arez.spy.SpyEventHandler` so that
  the Arez Spy API is located in a single package.
* **\[core\]** Remove the `TYPE` field from the spy events that is a constant derived at runtime and instead inline
  the constant where it is used.
* **\[core\]** Add `setterAlwaysMutates` parameter to `@Observable` that defaults to true. If set to false then the
  generated code for the setter will check that the setter actually made a change to the observable value before
  propagating the change. This makes it possible for a setter to reject a change or transform/normalize a value
  before assigning the value and this may not result in an actual change.
* 💥 **\[core\]** Replace usage of the `arez.Priority` enum with `arez.annotations.Priority` and `arez.spy.Priority`
  and remove the `arez.Priority` class. The purpose is to migrate to where it is used and make it easy to identify
  which code should be stripped during production compiles and under what circumstances. i.e. `arez.annotations.Priority`
  should never be compiled to javascript and `arez.spy.Priority` should only be present if spies are enabled.
* 💥 **\[core\]** Rename the `canNestActions` parameter on the `@Autorun` and `@Track` annotation to
  `nestedActionsAllowed` to align with underlying flags naming convention.
* 💥 **\[core\]** Rename the `@Autorun` annotation to `@Observed` to reflect naming conventions in the lower level
  api and to prepare for merging with `@Tracked` annotation.
* Update the `org.realityforge.guiceyloops:guiceyloops:jar` dependency to version `0.96`.
* 💥 **\[core\]** Rename the `onDepsUpdated` parameter to `onDepsChanged` to reflect conventions in the rest
  of the codebase.
* 💥 **\[core\]** Rename `arez.annotations.ObservableRef` to `arez.annotations.ObservableValueRef`. The default
  naming convention was also changed from `get[Name]Observable` to `get[Name]ObservableValue`.
* **\[core\]** Rename the `tracked` parameter on `ArezContext.observer(...)` methods to `observed` to align
  with documentation.
* **\[core\]** Merge the `@Tracked` annotation into the `@Observed` annotation. This involved adding an additional
  parameter `executor` that controls which actor is responsible for invoking the `@Observed` method. By default the
  `executor` is set to `AREZ` which makes the invocation of the observed method the responsibility of the Arez
  runtime. It can also be set to `APPLICATION` which means it is the responsibility of the application to invoke
  the `@Observed` method. Previously you annotated a method with the `@Track` annotation which is equivalent to
  annotating a method with `@Observed(executor=APPLICATION)`. The annotation processor was then updated to apply
  different constraints on the method depending upon the value of the `executor` parameter. Support was also added
  for the `reportParameters` parameter previously present on `@Track` annotation.
* **\[core\]** Rename the `ArezContext.track(...)` methods to `ArezContext.observe(...)`. This more accurately
  reflects the intent of the operation.
* **\[core\]** If an application invoked `Observer.schedule()` on a non-STALE `Observer` with an `observed` method
  and an `onDepsChanged` hook present then the next time that the `Observer` reacted to changes it would invoke the
  `observed` method rather than the `onDepsChanged` as expected. This bug has been fixed.
* **\[core\]** Add support for the `arezOnlyDependencies` parameter to the `@Observed` that makes it possible to
  specify the flags `AREZ_DEPENDENCIES_ONLY` and `NON_AREZ_DEPENDENCIES` when using the component model.
* **\[core\]** Introduce the `@ComponentIdRef` annotation that makes it possible to access the id of the component
  without resorting to the `arez.component.Identifiable` interface which has some performance impact.
* **\[core\]** Fixed a bug where a component annotated with `@ArezComponent(nameIncludesId=false)` that also had a
  `@Repository` annotation would always have an id of `0` in production mode.
* **\[core\]** The `Observer.schedule()`, `Observer.reportStale()` and `ComputedValue.reportPossibleChanged()`
  did not register as usages of the transaction and thus actions that did not set `verifyActionRequired`
  parameter to `false` would generate an invariant failure if the action only invoked these methods without also
  accessing or mutating other observable state. These methods now mark the transaction as used so it is no longer
  necessary to set `verifyActionRequired` to `false`.
* **\[core\]** Fixed bug where an action with `Flags.READ_ONLY` without the `Flags.REQUIRE_NEW_TRANSACTION` nested
  in an action with the `Flags.READ_ONLY` flag would still create a new transaction. This has been fixed so that the
  nested action no longer creates a new transaction.
* **\[core\]** Added new helper method `ArezContext.isReadOnlyTransactionActive()`.
* **\[core\]** Rename method `ArezContext.isWriteTransactionActive()` to `ArezContext.isReadWriteTransactionActive()`.
* **\[core\]** Changed the core api for invoking actions. Previously actions were created by passing a number
  of boolean flags such as `mutation`, `verifyActionRequired` and `requireNewTransaction`. These have been collapsed
  into a flags parameter that was moved after the executable parameter. The `parameters` parameter was changed from
  a non-null, var-args parameter into a nullable array. Update the annotation processor to pass null if there are no
  parameters or `Arez.areSpiesEnabled()` returns `false`. This improves the ability of the GWT compiler to optimize
  and eliminate unused code.
* **\[core\]** Update the `ArezContext.observe(...)` and `ArezContext.safeObserve(...)` methods to change the last
  parameter from a non-null, var args parameter into a nullable array. Makes the code easier for the GWT compiler
  to optimize.
* **\[core\]** Remove the `ArezContext.noTxAction(...)` and `ArezContext.safeNoTxAction(...)` methods and associated
  infrastructure for suspending and resuming transactions. The API was error prone and no use-case existed for the
  functionality so it has been removed until such a time where a use-case is determined. Removal also resulted in a
  decrease in code size when compiled using GWT.
* **\[core\]** Add a flag `Flags.AREZ_OR_NO_DEPENDENCIES` that makes it possible for observers that have not
  specified the `Flags.SCHEDULED_EXTERNALLY` flag to have zero dependencies. An `Observer` or `ComputedValue`
  that has zero dependencies will never be scheduled again but sometimes this is an expected scenario,
  particularly as various elements of a reactive system are disposed.
* **\[core\]** Replace the `arezOnlyDependencies` on the `@Computed` and `@Observed` annotations with an
  enumeration `DepType` that supports three values: `AREZ` (which has equivalent behaviour as the previous
  `arezOnlyDependencies=true` parameter), `AREZ_OR_EXTERNAL` (which is equivalent behaviour as the previous
  `arezOnlyDependencies=false` parameter) and `AREZ_OR_NONE` which expects that the observer or computed value
  to be derived from arez dependencies *but* also allows the observer or computed value to have zero dependencies.
* **\[core\]** Start to enforce the constraint that application executed observed methods must complete having
  accessed at least one dependency if the dependency type is `AREZ`. i.e. If a method annotated with
  `@Observed( executor = Executor.APPLICATION, depType = DepType.AREZ )` does not access an observable an
  invariant failure will be generated.
* **\[core\]** Rename the `@Dependency` annotation to `@ComponentDependency` to more accurately reflect intent.
