---
title: Arez 0.100 released
author: Arez Project
authorURL: https://github.com/arez
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/arez/arez/compare/v0.99...v0.100)

Changes in this release:

* **\[downstream-test\]** Test against output of J2CL over time to ensure that no size regressions occur.
* Update the release process to remove artifacts staged in previous releases.
* **\[processor\]** Change the mechanisms via which `@ArezComponent( disposeOnDeactivate = true )` is
  implemented so that the reaction scheduling the dispose is at a `HIGHEST` priority. This will avoid the
  scenario where `@Autorun` and `@Computed` methods react on a component that will be disposed because it
  is no longer being observed.
* **\[processor\]** Fix a bug that would result in an invariant failure when creating top-level arez elements
  (i.e. those without an associated native component) when `Arez.areNativeComponentsEnabled()` returns false
  but `Arez.areRegistriesEnabled()` returns true.
* **\[core\]** Add support for the `requireId` parameter on the `@ArezComponent` annotation. The default value
  is `AUTODETECT` which is equivalent to existing behaviour. It is also possible to explicitly enable ids which
  is particularly useful when building custom repository-like classes.
* **\[processor\]** Improve the invariant message to include the component name when the component id is
  accessed when it is not expected to be accessed.
* **\[core\]** If an `ArezContext` has a `ReactionEnvironment` configured and the environment schedules
  reactions after the call to the action that runs the scheduler, the runtime will now detect that the
  scheduler has tasks that need to be scheduled and immediately invoke the scheduler again until there are
  no tasks that need scheduling.
* **\[core\]** Introduce a `HIGHEST` priority so that reactions that schedule the de-allocation of resources
  can be scheduled at a higher priority than `HIGH` priority reactions.
