---
title: Arez 0.112 released
author: Arez Project
authorURL: https://github.com/arez
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/arez/arez/compare/v0.111...v0.112)

Changes in this release:

* **\[core\]** Add reference to external `arez-mediaquery` component.
* **\[core\]** In the spy events, convert the `duration` parameter into integers as no duration should
  exceed the size of an integer.
* **\[core\]** In spy events, change the key used to identify the source of the event from source specific
  string (i.e. `computed`, `observable`, `observer`, etc.) to use a generic key `name`.
* **\[core\]** Add flag `Flags.NO_REPORT_RESULT` that can be passed to `ArezContext.action(...)`,
  `ArezContext.safeAction(...)` and `ArezContext.tracker(...)` methods that will result in the return value
  (if any) from the action or observed function, not being specified in the `ActionCompletedEvent` spy event.
* **\[core\]** Add the `reportResult` parameter to the `@Action` annotation so that the underlying actions
  can be passed the `Flags.NO_REPORT_RESULT` flag.
* **\[core\]** Add the `reportResult` parameter to the `@Observe` annotation so that the underlying observers
  can be passed the `Flags.NO_REPORT_RESULT` flag.
* **\[core\]** Remove the `normalCompletion` parameter when serializing the `ActionCompleted` spy event
  as it is completely derivable based on the presence of the `errorMessage` parameter.
* **\[core\]** Rename the spy event from `ReactionStartedEvent` to `ObserveStartedEvent`.
* **\[core\]** Rename the spy event from `ReactionCompletedEvent` to `ObserveCompletedEvent`.
* **\[core\]** Rename the spy event from `ReactionObserveScheduled` to `ObserveScheduledEvent`.
* **\[core\]** Enhance the `ComputeCompletedEvent` spy event to include the error message (if present) or
  result computed.
* **\[core\]** Rename the class `arez.ComputedValue` to `arez.ComputableValue` with the intent of using a
  consistent terminology and tense within the API surface. This also involved renaming several support classes
  such as `arez.ComputedValueInfo` to `arez.ComputableValueInfo` and `arez.spy.ComputedValue*Event` to
  `arez.spy.ComputableValue*Event`.
* **\[core\]** Rename the `arez.ArezContext.computed(...)` methods to `arez.ArezContext.computable(...)`.
* **\[core\]** Rename the annotation `@ComputedValueRef` to `@ComputableValueRef`.
* **\[core\]** Fix invalid invariant failure triggered when invoking an action when compile time setting
  `arez.check_invariants` is set to `false` but `arez.check_api_invariants` is set to `true`.
* **\[core\]** Support the flag `Flags.NO_REPORT_RESULT` being passed to the `ArezContext.computable(...)` method
  to stop the result of computable calculation being reported in the `ComputeCompletedEvent` spy event.
* **\[core\]** Add the `reportResult` parameter to the `@Computed` annotation so that the underlying `ComputedValue`
  instances can be passed the `Flags.NO_REPORT_RESULT` flag.
* **\[core\]** If a `ComputedValue` was read from within an action and the element is not observed from an `Observer`
  then the spy event `ComputableValueDeactivatedEvent` would be generated after the compute completed despite
  there being no corresponding `ComputableValueActivatedEvent` spy event. This even is no longer generated.
* **\[core\]** Improve invariant failure messages when attempting to add or remove `OnDispose` listeners
  to the `DisposeNotifier`. This is typically exhibited when using the annotation processor to process a class
  that has a `@ComponentDependency` that is passed to the constructor and the dependency is already disposed.
* **\[core\]** Rename the annotation `@OnDepsChanged` to `@OnDepsChange` to keep consistent tense in
  annotation naming convention.
* **\[core\]** Add the `throwable` parameter to the `ObserveCompletedEvent` spy event.
* **\[core\]** Rename all the spy events from past tense to present tense to avoid the implication that the event
  has occurred as many of the spy events are emitted prior to the actual event occurring.
* **\[core\]** Rename the parameters to several methods in `ArezContext` from `observed` to `observe` to be more
  consistent with the rest of the API.
* **\[core\]** Merge the `@Computed` annotation into the `@Memoize` annotation. The two annotations both made the
  return value of a method observable in different contexts. Initially the annotations were separate as the mechanisms
  for implementing the scenario where the method had no parameters and the scenario where the method had parameters
  were significantly different. This change unifies the two scenarios in favour of improving the developer
  experience.
* **\[core\]** Add some minimal documentation describing how to explicitly force a `@Memoize` annotated method
  to re-evaluate when a non-arez dependency has been updated.
