---
title: Arez 0.95 released
author: Arez Project
authorURL: https://github.com/arez
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/arez/arez/compare/v0.94...v0.95)

Changes in this release:

* **\[core\]** Add a `Disposable.isNotDisposed()` default method that is equivalent to the
  `!Disposable.isDisposed()` method. This makes it possible to use the method as a method
  reference rather than creating a lambda.
* 💥 **\[core\]** Remove the `DISPOSE` transaction mode and removed the associated
  `ArezContext.dispose(...)` methods. The dispose actions now occur in a `READ_WRITE` transaction
  mode. This does mean that dispose actions can no longer occur within a read-only action or observer,
  nor can they occur within a computed value evaluation but these scenarios do not make a lot of sense
  and should have been considered bugs.
* **\[core\]** Add the `ArezContext.scheduleDispose(Disposable)` method that will schedule the
  disposable of an element. The disposable will be processed before the next top-level reaction.
* 💥 **\[core\]** Remove the `arez.EqualityComparator` interface as no non-default value was used in
  any application and the annotation processor offered no mechanism to configure functionality. As
  a result it can be removed to reduce complexity and code size.
* **\[component\]** Introduce `arez.component.DisposeTrackable` interface that can be implemented by
  components that need to notify listeners when the component has been disposed. The `arez.component.DisposeNotifier`
  class is used to perform the actual notification.
* **\[annotations\]** Add a `disposeTrackable` parameter to the `@ArezComponent` that defaults to `ENABLE`.
  If the parameter is `ENABLE`, the enhanced/generated component class will implement the `DisposeTrackable`
  interface. If the parameter is `AUTODETECT` then it will disable the feature if the `javax.inject.Singleton`
  annotation is present on the component.
* 💥 **\[component\]** Remove the usage of the `when()` observer from the implementation of repositories.
  The repositories now require that the components contained within the repository implement `DisposeTrackable`
  interface and the repository adds listeners to the `DisposeNotifier` associated with each component and
  detaches the component from the repository from within the dispose transaction of the entity. This has
  resulted in significant less code and complexity as it is no longer possible for the repository to contain
  disposed entities. This resulted in the removal of the `arez.component.EntityEntry` class and the
  `arez.component.AbstractEntryContainer` class.
* **\[annotations\]** Stop supporting the `@Dependency` annotation on methods annotated with `@Computed`.
  This had not been used in practice and resulted in several unintended consequences (i.e. `@Computed`
  methods all became the equivalent of `@Computed(keepAlive=true)`) when it was adopted. It also made it
  difficult to use `DisposeTrackable` to manage dependencies.
* **\[annotations\]** Enforce the constraint that the return value of methods annotated with `@Dependency`
  must either be annotated with `@ArezComponent(disposeTrackable=true)` or must be a type that extends
  `DisposeTrackable`.
* **\[annotations\]** Enforce the constraint that the methods annotated with `@Dependency` that are not
  also annotated with `@Observable` must be final.
* 💥 **\[processor\]** Remove the usage of `when()` observers to implement the `@Dependency` capability in
  the generated/enhanced component classes. The new implementation uses the `DisposeTrackable` interface to
  track when the dependency is disposed and responds appropriately (i.e. to cascade the dispose or set the
  local field to null).
*  **\[processor\]** Correct the default kind of ids so that the code to implement the `hashCode()` method
  in generated classes uses the simpler integer variant.
*  **\[component\]** Fix bug in `arez.component.AbstractEntityReference` where an attempt was made to mutate
  an observable during `@PreDispose` which would generate an invariant failure in development mode. Instead
  the underlying state is directly modified and the associated entity if present is detached as required.
* 💥 **\[annotations\]** Change the type of the `observable` parameter to `arez.annotations.Feature` enum so
  that the annotation processor can automatically detect when it is needed and omit generation if it is not
  required.
* 💥 **\[processor\]** Enforce the requirement that the `observable` parameter must not have the value
  `DISABLE` if the `@Repository` annotation is present. Previously the generated repository would have just
  failed to observe the entity in `findByArezId` which would have resulted in the failure to reschedule the
  containing observer if the component was disposed and the observer had not observed any other property of
  the component.
* **\[component\]** Added invariant check to `AbstractContainer.attach(...)` to ensure that the entity passed
  is not disposed.
* **\[component\]** Added invariant check to `AbstractEntityReference.setEntity(...)` to ensure that the entity
  passed is not disposed.
* 💥 **\[core\]** Generate an invariant failure if an autorun observer completes a reaction without adding a
  dependency on any observable. In this scenario, the autorun will never be rescheduled and has been no interaction
  with the rest of the Arez system. Thus the element should not be defined as an autorun.
* 💥 **\[core\]** Generate an invariant failure if a `ComputedValue` completes a compute without adding a
  dependency on any observable. In this scenario, the `ComputedValue` will never be rescheduled and has been
  no interaction with the rest of the Arez system. Thus the element should not be defined as a `ComputedValue`.
* 💥 **\[component\]** The methods `ComponentObservable.observe(...)` and `ComponentObservable.notObserved(...)`
  now expect that the parameter is an instance of `ComponentObservable` and will generate an invariant failure
  in development mode if this is not the case.
* **\[component\]** Made sure that the field `_context` is `null` unless `Arez.areZonesEnabled()` returns `true`.
  This makes it possible for the GWT optimizer to omit the field in production mode. This optimization was applied
  to the following classes;
    - `arez.component.MemoizeCache`
    - `arez.Component`
    - `arez.Transaction`
    - `arez.SchedulerLock`
    - `arez.SpyImpl`
* **\[processor\]** Generate an error if a component is annotated with both `@arez.annotaitons.Repository` and
  `javax.inject.Singleton`.
