---
title: Arez 0.115 released
author: Arez Project
authorURL: https://github.com/arez
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/arez/arez/compare/v0.114...v0.115)

Changes in this release:

* **\[core\]** Fixed bug inside scheduler that occurred when runaway reactions were detected and purged.
  The observers had been removed from the task queue but still had the flag set indicating that they were
  scheduled. If a subsequent action triggered the observer to be re-scheduled, the runtime would skip the
  step of queueing the observer as it believed the observer was still in the queue. Thus observers that had
  been purged would never react again.
* **\[gwt-output-qa\]** Remove assertions from `ArezBuildAsserts` that reference classes that have been
  removed. i.e. Assertions for non-existent classes such as `arez.Reaction` and `arez.TransactionMode`.
* **\[gwt-output-qa\]** Update assertions in `ArezBuildAsserts` that reference classes that have been
  renamed. i.e. Assertions for classes such as `arez.ReactionEnvironment` that was renamed to
  `arez.ReactionEnvironment`.
* **\[gwt-output-qa\]** Add assertions in `ArezBuildAsserts` to ensure names are omitted if names are
  disabled.
* **\[gwt-output-qa\]** Add assertions in `ArezBuildAsserts` to verify the `_context` field in `Transaction`,
  `SpyImpl`, `ScheduleLock`, `MemoizeCache` and `ReactionScheduler` classes is not present if zones disabled.
* **\[gwt-output-qa\]** Add assertions in `ArezBuildAsserts` to verify the `Locator` interface and supporting
  infrastructure is omitted if references are disabled.
* **\[gwt-output-qa\]** Add assertions in `ArezBuildAsserts` to verify the `PropertyAccessor` interface and
  supporting infrastructure is omitted if property introspectors are disabled.
* **\[core\]** Changed the api of the `ArezContext.scheduleDispose(...)` method to accept an optional name
  that will identify the task used to schedule dispose action. The name will be derived if not specified and
  names are required.
* **\[core\]** Completely refactor the scheduler to extract monolithic scheduler into smaller components,
  including a separate `TaskQueue` and an `Executor`. This is based on experiments conducted as parted of the
  `Streak` streaming events library. This also made it possible to merge the separate dispose action task queue
  and the observer reaction queue into a single unified task queue. As a result deferred disposes are scheduled
  at the same priority as `HIGHEST` priority reactions. This may result in some differences in task sequencing as
  previous to this change deferred dispose task were treated as a higher priority queue than `HIGHEST`. However
  if the application used the priorities as documented or only used the higher level component abstraction then
  this change should have no practical impact on application behaviour.
* **\[core\]** Rename the compile time constant `arez.purge_reactions_when_runaway_detected` to
  `arez.purge_tasks_when_runaway_detected` and rename all related infrastructure.
* **\[core\]** Fix a bug in `arez.Node` where an `apiInvariant` check was guarded by `Arez.shouldCheckInvariants()`
  rather than the correct `Arez.shouldCheckApiInvariants()`.
* **\[processor\]** Make the synthetic ids generated by the annotation processor 1 based rather than 0 based.
* **\[processor\]** The initialization sequence in generated components has been modified such that common
  reactive elements such as the `Observable` that exposes the components `disposed` state now occurs
  earlier in the initialization sequence. This should have no impact on application code as no user supplied code
  executes during component initialization. However, it does change the order in which spy events are emitted
  which may impact custom introspection tools.
* **\[core\]** Extract out common code from the generated components into `ComponentKernel` to reduce the
  amount of code generated per-component.
* **\[core\]** Change the annotation on `Disposable.dispose(...)` to allow a null parameter. The code already
  correctly handled this scenario.
* **\[processor\]** Fix bug where the underlying `ComputableValue` used to implement the `disposeOnDeactivate`
  parameter of the `@ArezComponent` was not being correctly disposed when the component was released.
* **\[processor\]** Change the way code is generated for `@Action` annotated methods that do not declare exceptions
  by removing the wrapping try-catch infrastructure as it is not needed and added code bloat.
* **\[processor\]** Change the way code is generated for `@Observe(executor=APPLICATION)` annotated methods that do
  not declare exceptions by removing the wrapping try-catch infrastructure as it is not needed and added code bloat.
* **\[core\]** Change the implementation of `Arez.arePropertyIntrospectorsEnabled()` so that it is false unless
  `Arez.areSpiesEnabled()` is also true.
* **\[core\]** Create the `arez.component.internal` package to contain classes that are implementation aspects that
  Arez users should not rely upon as they may change. Move the following classes into the package:
  - `ComponentKernel`
  - `MemoizeCache`
  - `AbstractRepository`
  - `AbstractContainer`
* **\[core\]** Fix invariant failure when the `ComponentObservable.observe()` method is invoked on a
  disposed component annotated with `@ArezComponent(disposeOnDeactivate=true)`.
* **\[core\]** A `ComputableValue` can be kept alive programmatically by invoking the
  newly added `ComputableValue.keepAlive()` method which will create a lock keepin the value active. When
  the method is invoked the computable value will be activated if not currently active. The lock will only
  be released when the return value of the `keepAlive()` method is disposed. A `ComputableValue` can only
  deactivate if there are no observers and no locks active.
