---
title: Arez 0.90 released
author: Arez Project
authorURL: https://github.com/arez
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/arez/arez/compare/v0.89...v0.90)

Changes in this release:

* **\[component\]** Add the method `AbstractContainer.shouldDisposeEntryOnDispose()` that controls
  whether an entity is detached or disposed when the container is disposed.
* **\[component\]** Add invariant check to `AbstractContainer.attach(entity)` to ensure that entity
  is not already attached.
* **\[component\]** Rename `AbstractContainer.getComponentName()` to `AbstractContainer.getName()`.
* **\[component\]** Extract `AbstractEntryContainer` from `AbstractContainer` to simplify creating
  other utilities that need to have references to entities removed when the entity is disposed.
* **\[component\]** Introduce `AbstractEntityReference` to make it easy to have references that are
  cleared when the component referenced is disposed.
* **\[processor\]** Update the processor so it does not generate classes that require the
  `javax.annotation.Generated` be present on the class path. The classes will only be annotated with
  this annotation if it is present on the classpath at the time of generation and the source version
  is `8`.
* **\[processor\]** Enhance the annotation processor so that it will not attempt to process classes
  until they are completely resolved. If an Arez component contains a dependency on code with compilation
  errors or has a circular dependency with generated code then it will not able to be processed
  by the new annotation processor. To restore the previous behaviour which could handle circular
  dependencies if the the dependency used a fully qualified name in the source code, the annotation
  processor must be passed the configuration property `arez.defer.unresolved` set to `false`. This
  is typically done by passing `-Aarez.defer.unresolved=false` to the javac command.
* 💥 **\[processor\]** Change the type of the synthetic id created for components to an `int` rather
  than a `long` to avoid the overhead of the long emulation code within GWT.
