---
title: Arez 0.44 released
author: Arez Project
authorURL: https://github.com/arez
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/arez/arez/compare/v0.43...v0.44)

Changes in this release:

#### Fixed
* **\[processor\]** `@OnDepsChanged` method candidates that are not annotated were being incorrectly ignored
  if they had a final modifier. Final modifiers are now accepted.

#### Added
* 💥 **\[processor\]** An `arez.annotations.Observable` property can now be defined by an abstract getter and an
  abstract setter. Previously the property had to be defined by a concrete getter and a concrete setter. If the
  methods are abstract the annotation processor will generate the methods and a field in the generated subclass.

#### Changed
* 💥 **\[processor\]** Classes annotated with the `arez.annotations.ArezComponent` annotation must be abstract
  rather than concrete unless the parameter `allowConcrete` is set to `true`. This eliminates a class of bugs
  resulting from developers instantiating the non-reactive component classes but still expecting the component
  to be reactive.
* 💥 **\[processor\]** The `arez.annotations.*Ref` annotations must only appear on abstract methods. Previously
  these annotations would be placed on methods that throw exceptions or return dummy values with the expectation
  that the generated subclass would override the methods to provide useful functionality. Now that types annotated
  with `@ArezComponent` can be marked as abstract, these methods must now be abstract.
