---
title: Arez 0.43 released
author: Arez Project
authorURL: https://github.com/arez
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/arez/arez/compare/v0.42...v0.43)

Changes in this release:

#### Fixed
* **\[processor\]** Fixed an annoying bug where certain Arez annotated methods that are marked with the
  `@Deprecated` annotation may result in deprecation warnings being generated by the compiler when compiling
  the enhanced subclasses. These include deprecated methods annotated with `@Action`, `@Observable`, `@Computed`,
  `@OnActivate`, `@OnDeactivate`, `@OnStale`, `@OnDispose`, `@Memoize`, `@Track`, `@OnDepsChanged` and `@Autorun`.
  The fix involved suppressing the warnings at the appropriate places in the generated code.
* **\[processor\]** The enhanced setter for `@Observable` properties, on the generated subclass of Arez components
  will first invoke `Observable.preReportChanged()` before calling setter in the component class to ensure that
  the state is not updated if there is no transaction or the transaction is read-only.
* **\[core\]** Fixed bug that could result in invariant failure when the initial immediate execution of an
  `Observer` that caused itself to be rescheduled. This could happen in `@Autorun` methods in components that
  do not set `deferSchedule` parameter to `true` on the `@ArezComponent` annotation.
* **\[core\]** Fixed a bug in `Transaction` class that resulted in an invariant failure in development mode when a
  `ComputedValue` had a dependency on a `ComputedValue` that had a dependency on a `ComputedValue` and the caller
  was a a read-only `Observer`. The code was incorrectly blocking updates of the cached value for `ComputedValue`
  due to attempting to perform a write in a read-only transaction.
* **\[core\]** Fixed a bug where a `Observable` could be passed as a parameter to `Transaction.queueForDeactivation()`
  when it was already queued for deactivation.
* **\[core\]** Made sure that the action wrapping an autorun reaction has the same name as the containing autorun
  Observer instance.

#### Added
* **\[docs\]** Continue to expand the "Component" documentation.
* 💥 **\[processor\]** The default value of the `nameIncludesId` parameter of the `arez.annotations.ArezComponent`
  is `false` if the class is also annotated with the `javax.inject.Singleton` annotation otherwise the default
  value is `true`. This changes from the original behaviour where the default value was always `true`. This is
  to support the very common use case that singleton components do not need and id as part of the name as there
  is only a single instance.
* **\[core\]** Introduce the method `Observable.preReportChanged()` that checks that it is possible to alter
  the `Observable` in the current transaction. In production mode this will typically be eliminated by the
  optimizer. This method allows the Arez application to check pre-conditions prior to altering Arez state to
  eliminate the scenario where state changes have not be correctly propagated.
* **\[core\]** Pending deactivations occur in the reverse order in which they were queued. This results in less
  copying whilst deactivations are being processed.

#### Changed
* 💥 **\[annotations\]** Rename the `arez.annotations.ComponentName` class to `arez.annotations.ComponentNameRef`.
* 💥 **\[annotations\]** Rename the `arez.annotations.ComponentTypeName` class to `arez.annotations.ComponentTypeNameRef`.
* 💥 **\[annotations\]** Replace the usage of `javax.annotation.PostConstruct` with `arez.annotations.PostConstruct`
  and generated an error if `javax.annotation.PostConstruct` is used from within an Arez component. The goal is to
  simplify documentation of `PostConstruct` annotation and reduce the places that users need to look to understand
  the Arez component model.
* 💥 **\[annotations\]** The default value of the `mutation` parameter on the `arez.annotations.Track` and
  `arez.annotations.Autorun` annotations has changed to false. This is primarily to reflect the fact that observers
  produce effects from Arez state and are not typically used to generate actions or changes.
