---
title: Arez 0.93 released
author: Arez Project
authorURL: https://github.com/arez
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/arez/arez/compare/v0.92...v0.93)

Changes in this release:

* **\[gwt-output-qa\]** Upgrade the version of `gwt-symbolmap` to `0.08`.
* **\[gwt-output-qa\]** Cleanup dependency tree in `gwt-output-qa` to use transitive dependencies
  where applicable.
* 💥 **\[core\]** Add `arez.Priority` enum that makes it possible to schedule "autorun"
  observers, "when" observers and computed values with more priorities that just high and low
  priority. The enum introduces the priorities `HIGHEST`, `HIGH`, `NORMAL` and `LOW`. Observers
  are placed in different queues based on priorities and processed in priority order in a
  first-in, first-out order within a priority. This differs from the previous design where high
  priority observers were processed in a last-in, first-out order.
* **\[annotations\]** Replace the `highPriority` parameter with a `priority` enum parameter in the
  `@Autorun`, `@Computed` and `@Track` annotations. This allows the usage of different priorities
  within the annotation driven component model.
* **\[gwt-output-qa\]** Upgrade the asserts to verify that the class `arez.component.ComponentState`
  is optimized out in production builds.
* **\[core\]** Introduce a helper method `arez.ArezTestUtil.resetState()` responsible for resetting
  context and zone state. This is occasionally required in tests.
* **\[core\]** Optimize out the field `arez.ReactionScheduler._context` in production builds
  unless zones are enabled.
* **\[entity\]** Introduce the `entity` module that will contain utilities for defining Arez entities.
  An Arez entity is an Arez component that has references to other Arez components or entities and
  these references and more importantly the inverse relationships are managed by Arez. These utilities
  were initially extracted from downstream libraries.
* **\[component\]** Fix a bug in `arez.component.AbstractEntityReference` where a change would not be
  generated for the reference when the referenced value was disposed.
