---
title: Arez 0.89 released
author: Arez Project
authorURL: https://github.com/arez
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/arez/arez/compare/v0.88...v0.89)

Changes in this release:

* **\[processor\]** Ensure that repositories work with components that contain initializers.
* 💥 **\[component\]** Remove the `preEntryDispose()` and `postEntryDispose()` methods from the
  `arez.component.AbstractContainer` class as they were never used, mis-named and would be
  invoked in an inconsistent order based on whether the contained entity was disposed by the
  `AbstractContainer` subclass or outside the container.
* **\[component\]** Remove the `AbstractRepository.destroy(...)` method and have each repository
  implementation implement destroy method as required. The result is that the destroy method on
  the repository will have a `public` access modifier if the entity type has a public modifier,
  otherwise it will have a `protected` modifier.
* 💥 **\[component\]** Remove the `@Action` annotation on `AbstractContainer.destroy(...)` as it is
  always redefined by repositories if destroy is supported.
* **\[component\]** Fixed invariant failure message that was missing `Arez-XXXX: ` prefix in the
  `AbstractContainer.destroy(...)` method.
* **\[component\]** Add `AbstractContainer.detach(...)` method to support removing an entity from
  a repository without disposing the entity.
* **\[annotations\]** Add a `detach` parameter to the `@Repository` annotation that defines the
  strategies for detaching an entity from a repository. The strategies include; (1) a `destroy(...)`
  method that disposes entity and detaches entity from the repository, (2) a `detach(...)` method that
  detaches entity, and (3) monitoring the entity and only detaching the entity from the repository if
  the entity is disposed.
* **\[component\]** Introduce `ComponentObservable.notObserved(...)` helper method to make it easy to
  use method references and integrate into java streaming API.
* 💥 **\[component\]** Rename `AbstractContainer.registerEntity(...)` method to `AbstractContainer.attach(...)`
  to more accurately reflect intent.
* **\[annotations\]** Add an `attach` parameter to the `@Repository` annotation that defines the
  strategies for attaching an entity to a repository. The strategies include a `create(...)`
  method that creates entity and attaches entity to the repository and/or an `attach(...)` method
  that manually attaches the entity created outside repository.
* **\[processor\]** Fix bug in generated components where id was not set if native components are disabled,
  names are enabled and there is no custom `@ComponentId`. The impact is that the names for these components
  would all include the name with `0` as id.
* **\[annotations\]** Add `observable` parameter to `@ArezComponent` that makes it possible to remove
  the per-component observable that enables `arez.component.ComponentObservable` possible. When this
  functionality is not required, it can be removed to reduce overheads.
