---
title: Arez 0.71 released
author: Arez Project
authorURL: https://github.com/arez
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/arez/arez/compare/v0.70...v0.71)

Changes in this release:

##### Fixed
* Specify that parent pom for generated poms as 'org.sonatype.oss:oss-parent:pom:8' rather than
  'org.sonatype.oss:oss-parent:pom:7' that fixes improves compatibility with later versions of Maven.
* **\[processor\]** Remove all dependencies declared in the pom for the `arez-processor` artifact so
  that tools that inspect the pom do not incorrectly try to add the dependencies to the classpath. All
  required dependencies have been shaded in.
* **\[core\]** Fixed the pom generated for the `arez-core` artifact to included the classifiers of
  dependencies so that the tools that inspect the pom include the correct artifacts when generating the
  classpath.

#### Added
* **\[gwt-output-qa\]** Extracted the `ArezBuildAsserts` class into a separate module so that it can be
  distributed as a jar and made available to downstream libraries.

#### Changed
* **\[browser-extras\]** Remove unused dependency on `gwt-user` artifact.
* Change the generated poms so that transitive dependencies of intra-project modules are not duplicated
  as dependencies within each modules dependencies list and instead intra-project dependencies include
  dependencies transitively.
* Removed the gwt classifier for artifacts intended to be consumed by downstream projects. This does result
  in source code being added to jars that are only intended for use on serverside however it significantly
  decreases the complexity when managing dependencies in GWT based applications which is the primary
  purpose of the library.
