---
title: Arez 0.96 released
author: Arez Project
authorURL: https://github.com/arez
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/arez/arez/compare/v0.95...v0.96)

Changes in this release:

* **\[core\]** Improve the invariant failure message when a `ComputedValue` completes without accessing
  any observables.
* Upgrade the `org.realityforge.braincheck:braincheck:jar` dependency to `1.11.0` for improved
  compatibility with J2CL with respect to compile-time constants.
* **\[processor\]** Generate the correct error message when a `@Dependency` annotation is on a method
  that returns an incompatible type.
* 💥 **\[core\]** Remove the `arez.Priority.HIGHEST` enum value. It was originally used to schedule dispose
  transactions but is no longer used for that use-case. This enum value is not exposed to the component
  framework thus there is limited if any usage of this priority within the framework users and it can be
  removed.
* 💥 **\[core\]** Introduce the `LOWEST` enum value for priority exposed to applications using the component
  model as well as applications using only core features. This means that applications that required 4
  separate priority levels continue to be supported by Arez.
* 💥 **\[core\]** Introduce the `observeLowerPriorityDependencies` parameter that can be passed when
  creating an autorun observer via `ArezContext.autorun(...)`, a tracker observer via `ArezContext.tracker(...)`
  or a computed value via `ArezContext.createComputedValue(...)`. This parameter defaults to `false` but
  if passed as `true` will allow the underlying observer instance to observe `ComputedValue` instances with
  a lower priority than the observer. Usually this scenario results in an invariant failure in development
  mode as low priority `ComputedValue` instances could delay reaction of a high priority observer. This
  effectively makes the `"high-priority"` observer react after the `"low-priority"` computed value which
  can introduce significant confusion. Sometimes this priority inversion is acceptable and the new parameter
  allows the user to eliminate the invariant failure when desired. In production mode, this parameter
  has no effect.
* 💥 **\[annotations\]** Add the `observeLowerPriorityDependencies` parameter to the `@Autorun`, `@Computed`
  and `@Tracked` annotations that integrates the underlying capability with the component model.
* 💥 **\[core\]** Rename `ArezContext.createComputedValue(...)` methods to `ArezContext.computedValue(...)`.
  Rename `ArezContext.createComponent(...)` methods to `ArezContext.component(...)`. Rename
  `ArezContext.createObservable(...)` methods to `ArezContext.observable(...)`. These renames are aimed at
  providing a more consistent API.
* Compile-time constants work differently between the JRE, J2CL and GWT2.x environments. Adopt an
  approach that has the same effective outcome across all environments. This involves using instance
  comparisons for results returned from `System.getProperty(...)` in GWT2.x and J2CL environments and
  using normal `equals()` method in JRE. It should be noted that for this to work correctly in the J2CL
  environment, the properties still need to defined via code such as:
  `/** @define {string} */ goog.define('arez.environment', 'production');`
* **\[core\]** Introduce JDepend based test that verifies that no unexpected dependencies between packages
  occur.
* 💥💥💥💥 **\[core\]** The `arez-annotations` and `arez-component` modules have been merged into `arez-core`.
  Both `arez-annotations` and `arez-component` were necessary to use the component model. Most if not all
  Arez applications make use of the component model so it was felt merging the modules simplified usage in
  downstream projects. JDepend is used to ensure that no undesired dependencies between packages are added
  now that the code is in a single module.
* **\[processor\]** Fix bug where the code to set the component state is guarded by `Arez.shouldCheckInvariants()`
  while the code to check the state was guarded by `Arez.shouldCheckApiInvariants()` which meant that the
  component would generate invariant failures if `Arez.shouldCheckApiInvariants()` returned true and
  `Arez.shouldCheckInvariants()` returned false.
