---
title: Arez 0.81 released
author: Arez Project
authorURL: https://github.com/arez
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/arez/arez/compare/v0.80...v0.81)

Changes in this release:

##### Fixed
* **\[component\]** Fixed a bug in `AbstractContainer.preDispose()` that invoked an `@ObservableRef` method
  during dispose of the container.

##### Added
* **\[docs\]** Add some minimal "Getting Started" documentation to the website.
* **\[docs\]** Add some documentation on how to configure IntelliJ IDEA to the website.

#### Changed
* **\[processor\]** Change the way that the annotation processor marks generated classes as
  generated. When the source version of input code is Java 9 or greater then the
  `javax.annotation.processing.Generated` annotation is added rather than the historic
  `javax.annotation.Generated` which can be difficult to support in Java 9 due to split modules.
* **\[docs\]** Add some minimal documentation for `ArezContext.noTxAction(...)` to the website.
* **\[docs\]** Add some minimal documentation for `Disposable`, `ComponentObservable`
  and `Identifiable` to the website.
* **\[processor\]** Claim the Arez annotations that are processed by the annotation processor.
  Subsequent annotation processor will not be asked to process the annotation types which results
  in a very slight performance improvement during compilation.
* **\[annotations\]** Add support for the `highPriority` parameter to `@Computed`, `@Track`
  and `@Autorun` observers. This enables the prioritized scheduling of these Arez elements
  from the component model with all the risks and benefits that this entails.
