---
title: Arez 0.109 released
author: Arez Project
authorURL: https://github.com/arez
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/arez/arez/compare/v0.108...v0.109)

Changes in this release:

* **\[core\]** Document the requirement for transactions on the methods: `ObservableValue.reportObserved()`,
  `ObservableValue.preReportChanged()`, `ObservableValue.reportChanged()`, `ComputedValue.get()` and
  `ComputedValue.reportPossiblyChanged()`.
* **\[core\]** Ensure that when the `ReactionEnvironment` functional interface is used to wrap actions that
  the action can not be nested. If `ArezContext.runInEnvironment(action)` is invoked when an instance of the
  `ReactionEnvironment` functional interface is already on the call stack then the supplied procedure is directly
  invoked without invoking the `ReactionEnvironment` functional interface again.
* **\[core\]** Modify the `ReactionEnvironment` interface so that it executes `Function` and `SafeFunction`
  instances rather than instances of `Procedure`. This will stop `ReactionEnvironment` from being a functional
  interface but is preparation to enable actions to be optionally invoked inside an environment.
* **\[core\]** Add a compile-time setting `arez.enable_environments` that will mean allows the removal of the
  `ReactionEnvironment` interface and related code if the feature is not needed.
* **\[core\]** Rename the `ReactionEnvironment` interface to `Environment`
* **\[core\]** Add the flags `Flags.ENVIRONMENT_REQUIRED` and `Flags.ENVIRONMENT_REQUIRED`. These flags can be
  supplied
    - when invoking actions via `ArezContext.action(...)` or `ArezContext.safeAction(...)`
    - when creating `ComputedValue` instances.
    - when creating `Observer` instances that also created with the `Flags.APPLICATION_EXECUTOR` flag.
  If the `Flags.ENVIRONMENT_REQUIRED` is specified then the runtime will ensure that the relevant code is
  invoked within the context of the `Environment`.
* **\[core\]** Rename the `@Observed` annotation to `@Observe`.
* **\[core\]** Verify the flags passed to the `ArezContext.action(...)` and `ArezContext.safeAction(...)`
  have no incompatible flag combinations.
* **\[core\]** Add the `requireEnvironment` parameter to the `@Action` annotation to control whether the
  `Flags.ENVIRONMENT_REQUIRED` flag is added when invoking the action.
* **\[core\]** Add the `requireEnvironment` parameter to the `@Computed` annotation to control whether the
  `Flags.ENVIRONMENT_REQUIRED` flag is added when computing the value.
* **\[core\]** Add the `requireEnvironment` parameter to the `@Observe` annotation to control whether the
  `Flags.ENVIRONMENT_REQUIRED` flag is added when observing a method that has an `APPLICATION` executor.
* **\[core\]** Add the `requireEnvironment` parameter to the `@Memoize` annotation to control whether the
  `Flags.ENVIRONMENT_REQUIRED` flag is added when computing the value.
