---
title: Arez 0.88 released
author: Arez Project
authorURL: https://github.com/arez
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/arez/arez/compare/v0.87...v0.88)

Changes in this release:

* **\[processor\]** Setters for `@Observable` properties where the parameter is annotated with `@Nonnull` now
  enforce non-nullness by generating an assertion in the setter and the initializer (if present).
* **\[processor\]** Update the error generated for scenario `"@ArezComponent target has an abstract method not implemented by framework"`
  so that the error is attached to the `@ArezComponent` target class rather than the abstract method
  that has failed to be implemented. Also include the abstract method name in the error message.
* **\[processor\]** Improve the error reporting when an error occurs due to code that is not being
  compiled in the compilation that triggered the annotation processor. Tooling such as Intellij IDEA
  will not correctly report the location of the error in these scenarios. To address this limitation,
  a duplicate error is reported targeting the class that triggered the failure and an additional
  message is reported describing the element that caused the error.
* **\[component\]** Effectively remove custom `arez.component.NoSuchEntityException.toString()` when
  `Arez.areNamesEnabled()` returns false. This eliminates a small amount code in production applications.
* **\[processor\]** Fix bug that resulted in `@Computed` annoated methods being un-observed and deactivated
  if the result is a collection and `Arez.areCollectionsPropertiesUnmodifiable()` returns `true`.
