---
title: Arez 0.92 released
author: Arez Project
authorURL: https://github.com/arez
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/arez/arez/compare/v0.91...v0.92)

Changes in this release:

* **\[annotations\]** Remove the `@Unsupported` annotation from all the annotations within the
  `arez.annotations` package as all of the annotations are sufficient stable to be supported
  going forward.
* **\[core\]** Remove the `@Unsupported` annotation from the `arez.spy` package and the `arez.Spy`
  interface as the spy infrastructure has started to stabilize.
* **\[core\]** Remove the `org.realityforge.anodoc.TestOnly` annotation from the codebase as it is
  only documentation and not enforced by any tooling and it is also the only remaining dependency
  upon the `org.realityforge.anodoc` dependency which was also removed.
* Update build process so that the generated poms do not include dependencies on GWT. The GWT
  dependencies are not required by react4j but are only required to GWT compile the project. This
  dependency needs to be broken for GWT3.x/j2cl support.
* Remove the usage of `javax.annotation.Nonnegative` as it is not enforced by tooling and adds an
  additional dependency on the codebase.
* Replace usage of the `com.google.code.findbugs:jsr305:jar` dependency with the
  `org.realityforge.javax.annotation:javax.annotation:jar` dependency as the former includes code that
  is incompatible with J2CL compiler.
* Make sure the dependency upon `org.realityforge.javax.annotation:javax.annotation:jar` is transitive.
* Make sure the dependency upon `com.google.jsinterop:jsinterop-annotations:jar` is transitive.
* Remove the `com.google.jsinterop:base:jar` artifact with the `sources` classifier from the build as
  the main jar includes the sources required for the GWT compiler.
* Remove the `com.google.jsinterop:jsinterop-annotations:jar` artifact with the `sources` classifier
  from the build as the main jar includes the sources required for the GWT compiler.
* Remove the `test` scoped dependencies from the generated POMs. The POMs are only intended for
  consumption and do not need to contain dependency details about how the project was built.
* Upgrade the `org.realityforge.braincheck:braincheck:jar` dependency to `1.9.0` for compatibility
  with J2CL.
* Make the dependency upon `org.realityforge.braincheck:braincheck:jar` transitive.
* Cleanup the POM for `gwt-output-qa` module and use transitive dependencies where possible.
