---
title: Arez 0.64 released
author: Arez Project
authorURL: https://github.com/arez
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/arez/arez/compare/v0.63...v0.64)

Changes in this release:

#### Fixed
* **\[core\]** Fixed a bug that occurred when a "When" observer was explicitly disposed prior to the effect
  running. This left the associated `ComputedValue` un-disposed and if `Arez.areRegistriesEnabled()` returns
  true or `Arez.areNativeComponentsEnabled()` returns true then the `ComputedValue` would never be disposed
  or garbage collected.
* **\[core\]** Fixed a bug where an `Observer` has an `OnDispose` hook that recursively attempts to dispose
  itself. This previously attempted to perform dispose action again and caused invariant failures.
* **\[component\]** Fixed a bug where when observers created by `AbstractRepository` subclasses to monitor
  entities added to the repository were not being correctly disposed.
* **\[processor\]** Make sure that the `ComputedValue` created when the `disposeOnDeactivate` parameter on
  the `@ArezComponent` is true, is set as a high priority. This means this dispose will be prioritized before
  other state transforming reactions.

#### Added
* **\[core\]** Added the ability to create `"high priority"` `ComputedValue` instances. This results in the
  observer that is created by the `ComputedValue` instance being marked as high priority. High priority
  `ComputedValue` instances are useful when they are used to directly drive high priority observers. As the
  `"high priority"` observers can not be scheduled until the `ComputedValue` instances, it is necessary to
  mark dependencies of `"high priority"` observers as `"high priority"`.

#### Changed
* **\[processor\]** The classes generated by the processor duplicated the code for disposing `cascadeOnDispose`
  and `setNullOnDispose` supporting infrastructure if native components were enabled. This code has been removed
  for clarity and to improve code size.
* **\[core\]** Allow `Observer` instances to be added to native component `Component` when the component has
  already been completed. This supports the use case where `when` observers are created when a new entity is
  added to a repository.
* **\[component\]** Expose the native component in rhw `AbstractRepository` so that is available in extensions.
