---
title: Arez 0.58 released
author: Arez Project
authorURL: https://github.com/arez
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/arez/arez/compare/v0.57...v0.58)

Changes in this release:

#### Fixed
* **\[component\]** Fixed bug in `ComponentState.isActive(state)` so that if the state is
  `ComponentState.COMPONENT_COMPLETE` then it is categorized as active. Otherwise invariant failures would
  be triggered if any the autoruns and or dependency observers were scheduled and attempted to access observable
  or computed properties.

#### Added
* **\[annotations\]** Introduce the `Dependency` annotation that can be used to annotate methods that return
  dependencies of a component. If the dependencies are disposed then the component will either cascade the
  dispose to itself or null the reference depending on whether the `action` parameter is set to `CASCADE` or
  `SET_NULL`.

#### Changed
* 💥 **\[component\]** Change the contract of `arez.component.ComponentObservable` to allow it to be called
  from non-tracking transactions.
* 💥 **\[component\]** Change the parameter to `ComponentObservable.observe(Object)` so that it is `@Nullable`
  and it can also be a value that does not implement the `ComponentObservable` interface. In both scenarios
  the value `true` is returned. This covers the most common scenario where code is using the
  `ComponentObservable.observe(Object)` method to observe an entity and know when it has been disposed.
* **\[processor\]** Improve the code generated for the `observe()` method so it is easier for the
  GWT compiler to optimize.
* **\[component\]** Optimize the `AbstractRepository.findByArezId()` method so that if the entity is located
  then that entity is observed, otherwise the set of entities is observed. This ensures that the caller will
  become stale or be notified of either the entity being disposed or new entities being added to the collection.
* **\[processor\]** Add a `requireEquals` parameter to the `ArezComponent` annotation. This controls whether
  the business logic requires that the `equals(Object)` and `hashCode()` methods are implemented. If they are
  not required then they are guarded in such a way that the GWT compiler can remove the methods during
  optimization. The default value is `AUTODETECT` which enables the method if an `@Repository` annotation is
  present on the component otherwise disables generation of these methods. It is an error to set the parameter
  to `DISABLE` if an `@Repository` annotation is present on the component.
* 💥 **\[core\]** Split the `arez.ArezDev` GWT module into `arez.ArezDev` and `arez.ArezDebug`. The
  `arez.ArezDebug` GWT modules is equivalent to the `arez.ArezDev` GWT module prior to the split. The
  `arez.ArezDev` after the split does not enable the configuration flags `arez.enable_property_introspection`,
  `arez.enable_spies`, `arez.enable_registries`, `arez.enable_native_components` or `arez.check_invariants`.
  The aim of this change is to reduce the execution overhead associated with inheriting from the `arez.ArezDev`
  GWT module during development.
* **\[core\]** Changed the `ArezContext.when(...)` methods to return the observer that is created to watch the
  condition. If the invoking code calls `dispose()` on the observer then the condition will self-dispose when
  it is deactivated.
* **\[core\]** Change the `ArezContext.when(...)` method to support passing a component that contains the
  reactive components created by the `when(...)` call.
* **\[core\]** Add a parameter to the `ArezContext.when(...)` methods to control whether the contained autorun
  observer should run immediately or wait till the next scheduler invocation.
* **\[processor\]** Ensure that there is a stable ordering of Arez elements in generated classes that is based
  on declaration order in the source component.
