---
title: Arez 0.53 released
author: Arez Project
authorURL: https://github.com/arez
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/arez/arez/compare/v0.52...v0.53)

Changes in this release:

#### Fixed
* **\[processor\]** The `create` methods on the generated repository incorrectly had their access level
  determined by the access level of the associated components constructor. This has been corrected so
  that the access level of the component class determines the access level of the method.
* **\[processor\]** The methods on the generated repository and the repository class itself incorrectly
  had defined the access level as public. This has been corrected so that the access level of the component
  class determines the access level of the methods and the repository type.
* **\[processor\]** Make sure that the annotation processor copies documented annotations when implementing
  the method annotated by `@ComponentNameRef`.

#### Changed
* **\[core\]** Updated `ObserverErrorHandlerSupport` to improve dead code elimination in production mode.
  Previously when an `ObserverErrorHandler` produced an error, the error handler would delegate to
  `ThrowableUtil` to produce a detailed error message while the new code delegates to platform to decode
  throwables and produces a slightly less comprehensive message.
* **\[processor\]** Used code supplied by the JVM to detect whether a name is a valid java identifier and
  removed custom code to detect whether name is a java identifier. Enhanced the exceptions to give greater
  context to why a name is invalid.
* **\[processor\]** Added checks in the annotation processor that names are not keywords. This can cause
  problems during code generation.
* **\[component\]** Added some nullability annotations to the ref methods in the `AbstractRepository` class.
* **\[annotations\]** Remove the `name` parameter from the `@Repository` annotation as it is no longer unused.
