---
title: Arez 0.147 released
author: Arez Project
authorURL: https://github.com/arez
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/arez/arez/compare/v0.146...v0.147)
[API Differences](/api-diff/?key=arez&old=0.146&new=0.147)

The release includes 2 breaking API changes.

Changes in this release:

* Upgrade the `org.realityforge.braincheck` artifact to version `1.25.0`.
* Rework the way `ArezLogger` is implemented to consolidate the JRE and javascript based console loggers into the class `ConsoleLogger`. The involved renaming the `console_js` value to `console` for the compile-time property `arez.logger`.
* Remove the `jul` (a.k.a. `java.util.logging`) strategy available when configuring the `ArezLogger` via the compile-time property `arez.logger`. This strategy was never used in practice.
* Improve the javadocs in the `arez.annotations` package to reflect current behaviour of Arez.
* Add the option `arez.defer.errors` to the annotation processor. If explicitly set to false by passing the argument `-Aarez.defer.errors=false` during compiles then errors will be displayed as immediately as errors and halt the compiler. Otherwise the default behaviour of issuing error messages as `MANDATORY_WARNINGS` and then an error in the last round will be used.
* Avoid unnecessary casts in code generated for `@Memoize` methods that don't return a primitive value.
* Eliminate warnings in generated code due to accessing raw types and unchecked types in components that have type parameters.
* Avoid use of raw type for return value of `arez.component.internal.AbstractContainer.getEntitiesObservableValue()` to eliminate warnings in generated code.
* Explicitly suppress `rawtypes` warning when overriding `@ObservableValueRef` annotated methods if the return type is a raw type.
* Eliminate unnecessary cast when `@Memoize` annotated methods contain a parameter of type `java.lang.Object`
* Explicitly suppress `rawtypes` warning when overriding `@ComputableValueValueRef` annotated methods if the return type is a raw type.
* Explicitly lint warnings in `core` library.
* Support `@CascadeDispose` on abstract `@Observable` properties.
