---
title: Arez 0.128 released
author: Arez Project
authorURL: https://github.com/arez
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/arez/arez/compare/v0.127...v0.128)

Changes in this release:

* **\[core\]** Upgrade the `com.google.elemental2:*` libraries to version `1.0.0-b15-7a28038`
  released under groupId `org.realityforge.com.google.elemental2`.
* **\[processor\]** Changed the way that the annotation processor generates errors. Previously if an error was
  detected, it was reported as a fatal error and the annotation processor halted the compile after the current
  processing round. This made development painful where one annotation processor consumed artifacts produced by
  another annotation processor or used multiple processing rounds to generate the required source as many errors
  would be produced due to missing artifacts that were completely unrelated to the original problem. Within Arez
  this scenario was common if dagger injection was enabled and Arez generated artifacts that were expected to be
  passed into the dagger annotation processor. It could also occur when `@Repository` annotated types generated
  code that was expected to be processed by the Arez annotation processor in a subsequent round. Due to limitations
  imposed by the annotation processor framework, issues need to be reported in the round in which they are generated
  to avoid ommitting diagnostic information about the error such as source location *but* reporting the issue as
  an error terminates the annotation processing rounds. To work around these limitations, Arez now reports all
  issues as `MANDATORY_WARNING` issues and adds a flag so that on the last round an error is generated if any of
  the `MANDATORY_WARNING` issues were generated. This is not ideal but is the best outcome we could find within
  the current annotation processing framework.
