---
title: Arez 0.127 released
author: Arez Project
authorURL: https://github.com/arez
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/arez/arez/compare/v0.126...v0.127)

Changes in this release:

* **\[processor\]** Fix a bug in the generated component classes that contain `@Observe(executor=EXTERNAL)`
  and no elements that could be scheduled that generated an extra call to `triggerScheduler()`. This increased
  the code size and could trigger the scheduler before expected.
* **\[processor\]** Optimize the code generator to omit the internal dispose method if it is empty. The internal
  dispose method was empty if the component had no `@Observe`, `@Memoize` or `@Observable` annotated methods.
* **\[processor\]** Optimize the code generator to omit the internal pre dispose method if it is empty. The
  processor already omitted the method in most scenarios but inclusion was triggered when reference without
  an inverse was present.
* **\[processor\]** Fix the annotation processor so that the `dagger` parameter on the `@ArezComponent` annotation
  behaves as documented. Previously if dagger was set to `AUTODETECT` or not set and the component did not have
  a scoped annotation, then the dagger infrastructure would not be created even if `inject` was not set to
  `NONE` or did not resolve to `NONE`.
* **\[processor\]** Significantly refactor the injection framework support and add more integration tests to verify
  the output acts as expected when dagger compiles the output artifacts. The refactor produced a consistent ordering
  of operations such that the injection points are populated before `@PostConstruct` methods are invoked and before
  any elements that can be scheduled (i.e. `@Memoize(keepAlive=true)`, `@Observe(executor=INTERNAL)` and/or
  `@ComponentDependency`) first execute.
