---
title: Arez 0.159 released
author: Arez Project
authorURL: https://github.com/arez
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/arez/arez/compare/v0.158...v0.159)
[API Differences](/api-diff/?key=arez&old=0.158&new=0.159)

The release includes 5 non breaking API changes, 3 potentially breaking API changes and 2 breaking API changes.

Changes in this release:

* Include the location of the problem when generating warnings for unnecessary public or protected access on members.
* If a component contains a pair of abstract methods that follow the pattern of setter and getter and the methods are not annotated by any other Arez annotation then the annotation processor will treat the methods as if they are annotated with the `@Observable` annotation. This simplifies the process of writing observable models.
* Deferred errors from the annotation tool are output at `WARNING` level rather than `MANDATORY_WARNING` as some tooling seems to prefer it.
* Remove the `nameIncludesId` parameter from the `@ArezComponent` annotation. It was initially used as part of the early debugging mechanisms but has been superseded by improvements in the spy subsystem and native components.
* Remove the `name` parameter from the `@Repository` annotation as it was never used.
* Significant internal restructure of the annotation processor that starts to morph the architecture so that rather than grouping by domain the internals of the annotation processor are grouped by phase or function. The intent is to simplify the code base for upcoming changes. The practical effect of this has been to
  * Move most of the verification from the model (i.e. the `*Descriptor` classes) back to the `ArezProcessor`.
  * Move and refactor the code generation from the model to static methods defined by the `Generator` class.
  * Introduce a repository model abstraction as `RepositoryDescriptor` and move generation of the repository to `RepositoryGenerator`
  * Extract a `DaggerModuleGenerator` class to generate the dagger module when required.
  * Extract a `DaggerComponentExtensionGenerator` class to generate the dagger component extension when required.
  * Rename `Generator` class to `ComponentGenerator` to reflect intent.
* Add the parameter `defaultReadOutsideTransaction` to the `@ArezComponent` annotation that defines the default value of the `readOutsideTransaction` parameter on the `@Observable` annotation and the `@Memoize` annotation on any methods contained within the type annotated by `@ArezComponent`. This makes it possible to simplify specifying the `readOutsideTransaction` parameter for all observables and memoized values on a class. The type of the `readOutsideTransaction` parameter on the `@Observable` and `@Memoize` annotations was also changed from a `boolean` type to a `Feature` so the default behaviour of deriving the default value can be explicitly specified via an `AUOTDETECT` value.
* Add the parameter `defaultWriteOutsideTransaction` to the `@ArezComponent` annotation that defines the default value of the `writeOutsideTransaction` parameter on the `@Observable` annotation on any methods contained within the type annotated by `@ArezComponent`. The type of the `writeOutsideTransaction` parameter on the `@Observable` annotation was also changed from a `boolean` type to a `Feature` so the default behaviour of deriving the default value can be explicitly specified via an `AUOTDETECT` value.
