---
title: Arez 0.133 released
author: Arez Project
authorURL: https://github.com/arez
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/arez/arez/compare/v0.132...v0.133)

Changes in this release:

* Remove references to `arez-ticker` as it has been deprecated.
* Remove references to `arez-timeddisposer` as it has been deprecated.
* Remove references to `arez-when` as it has been deprecated.
* Remove references to `arez-mediaquery` as it has been merged into `arez-dom`.
* Remove references to `arez-networkstatus` as it has been merged into `arez-dom`.
* Remove references to `arez-browserlocation` as it has been merged into `arez-dom`.
* **\[core\]** Correct the javadocs of `@ArezComponent.requireId` to indicate that the feature will
  default to `ENABLE` when the `@ComponentIdRef` annotation is present on a method in the type.
* **\[core\]** Default the `@ArezComponent.requireId` parameter to `ENABLE` if the type contains a
  method annotated by the `@Inverse` annotation.
* **\[processor\]** Code used to implement `@Observable( writeOutsideTransaction = true )` setters
  has been moved from being generated per-observable into `ComponentKernel` to reduce code size.
* **\[core\]** Simplify the `arez.CircularBuffer` class to eliminate unused methods and extract common
  code segments.
* Start building `spritz` branch in `react4j-todomvc` as part of build and release cycle.
* **\[core\]** Annotate parameters of `Disposeable.isDisposed(Object)` and `Disposeable.isNotDisposed(Object)`
  as `@Nullable` rather than `@Nonnull` as the code already supports passing null parameters. This eliminates
  unnecessary checks in caller that are not always optimized out.
