---
title: Arez 0.144 released
author: Arez Project
authorURL: https://github.com/arez
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/arez/arez/compare/v0.143...v0.144)
[API Differences](/api-diff/?key=arez&old=0.143&new=0.144)

Changes in this release:

* Upgrade the `org.realityforge.javax.annotation` artifact to version `1.0.1`.
* Upgrade the `org.realityforge.com.google.elemental2` artifacts to version `2.25`.
* Add the `validateTypeAtRuntime` parameter to the annotation `@ComponentDependency` to defer the checking of the annotated field type or the annotated method return type till runtime. This makes it possible to add this annotation to fields defined by an interface and have the member treated as a dependency. The type is still checked at runtime and will generate an invariant failure if invariants are enabled, otherwise will generate a `ClassCastException`.
* Enhance the annotation processor to detect when an `@ArezComponent` annotated class or a `DisposeNotifier` implementation is declared as a field or an abstract `@Observable` property in a class annotated with `@ArezComponent` but does not have a `@CascadeDispose` nor a `@ComponentDependency` annotation. If this scenario is detected then issue a warning as it is possible that there exists a scenario where a disposed component continues to be referenced by a non-disposed component. This warning can be suppressed by using `@SuppressWarnings( "Arez:UnmanagedComponentReference" )`.
* Add the `verifyReferencesToComponent` parameter to the `@ArezComponent` annotation to control whether the `UnmanagedComponentReference` warning should be generated when referencing the component defined by the `@ArezComponent` annotation. If `verifyReferencesToComponent` is set to `DISABLE` then references to the component will no generate warnings.
* Add the `@ActAsComponent` annotation that can be used to mark a type as one that can generate `UnmanagedComponentReference` warnings.
* Add the `@arez.annotations.SuppressArezWarnings` annotation as an alternative to `@java.lang.SuppressWarnings` if the suppression occurs on a base class that is present in library and not necessarily compiled in the same compiler instances as the Arez component.
