---
title: Arez 0.130 released
author: Arez Project
authorURL: https://github.com/arez
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/arez/arez/compare/v0.129...v0.130)
[API Differences](/api-diff/?key=arez&old=0.129&new=0.130)

Changes in this release:

* Add the `react4j-drumloop` sample application into set off used to track code size changes over time.
* Upgrade the `org.realityforge.com.google.elemental2:*` libraries to version `1.0.0-b16-6897368`.
* **\[core\]** Allow the invocation of `DisposeNotifier.removeOnDisposeListener(...)` when the
  `DisposeNotifier` has been disposed to avoid per-component generation to check whether `DisposeNotifier`
  has been disposed in the rare circumstances where it is required.
* **\[core\]** Avoid invoking the `OnDispose` listener when disposing the `DisposeNotifier` if the key
  used to register the listener is disposed. The key is typically another component and invoking the callback
  will generate a runtime or invariant failure if attempts to access the disposed component. This works around
  an extremely rare error when both the listener and the original component are disposed.
* **\[core\]** Remove the `DisposeNotifier` class and merge functionality into the `ComponentKernel` class.
  Simplify the `DisposeTrackable` interface by adding the `addOnDisposeListener` and `removeOnDisposeListener`
  methods to the interface.
* **\[core\]** Rename the `disposeTrackable` parameter to `disposeNotifier` on the `ArezComponent` annotation.
* **\[core\]** Rename the `DisposeTrackable` interface to `DisposeNotifier`.
