---
title: Arez 0.155 released
author: Arez Project
authorURL: https://github.com/arez
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/arez/arez/compare/v0.154...v0.155)
[API Differences](/api-diff/?key=arez&old=0.154&new=0.155)

The release includes 4 non breaking API changes and 4 non breaking API changes.

Changes in this release:

* Upgrade the `org.realityforge.com.google.elemental2` artifacts to version `2.27`.
* Remove support for the `allowConcrete` parameter on the `@ArezComponent` annotation. Components must now be abstract. The `allowConcrete` parameter was initially present as transition mechanism from a period where components were required to be concrete.
* Improve the javadocs describing constraints on the annotations.
* Generate a suppressable warning if a ref method is protected and in the same class that is annotated by `@ArezComponent` or is public and not an implementation of an interface method. These methods are not expected to be invoked from outside the component instance and this warning discourages incorrect usage. This constraint has been applied to the annotations:
  * `@ComponentIdRef`
  * `@ComponentNameRef`
  * `@ComponentRef`
  * `@ComponentStateRef`
  * `@ComponentTypeNameRef`
  * `@ContextRef`
  * `@ComputableValueRef`
  * `@ObservableValueRef`
  * `@ObserverRef`
* Fix bug in annotation where a package-access entity that was annotated with the `@Repository` annotation would generate bad code.
* Ensure that the generated implementations of all of the `@*Ref` annotations are annotated with `@Nonnull` if possible.
* Avoid copying the `@Deprecated` and `@SuppressWarnings` from the `@*Ref` annotated methods to the implementations when the annotations usage defines an explicit type without a user-controlled type parameter.
* Added a parameter `defaultPriority` to the `@ArezComponent` annotation that specifies the priority of any `@Memoize` annotated method or `@Observe` annotated method that does specify a specific priority. This simplifies setting the priority for multiple active elements on an Arez component.
