---
title: Arez 0.168 released
author: Arez Project
authorURL: https://github.com/arez
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/arez/arez/compare/v0.167...v0.168)
[API Differences](/api-diff/?key=arez&old=0.167&new=0.168)

The release includes 3 non breaking API changes and 3 breaking API changes.

Changes in this release:

* Upgrade the `org.realityforge.org.jetbrains.annotations` artifact to version `1.4.0`.
* Upgrade the `org.realityforge.proton` artifacts to version `0.40`.
* Add the `arez.debug` annotation option to help debug annotation processing.
* Remove the `@PerInstance` annotation as it was only used to help generate factories in `react4j` which now uses an alternative strategy for injecting react4j components.
* Remove the `InjectMode.CONSUME` enumeration value as it did not really offer enough value relative to the complexity that was incurred supporting the use case. It is also no longer used in any downstream consumers. As a result,  `[MyComponent]DaggerComponentExtension` classes are no longer generated.
* Refactor the injection support so that the `Arez_*` classes are not annotated with `@Inject` and instead the `DaggerModule` creates the instance in a `@Provides` annotated method. This meant that there was no longer a need for the constructor to be public access.
* Avoid generating "unmanaged reference" warnings when fields are not annotated with `@CascadeDispose` nor `@ComponentDependency` but a parameter with the same type has been passed into a constructor. In this circumstances the unmanaged reference is usually managed by the party responsible for creating the arez component and thus it is not appropriate to generate a warning.
* Fix several error messages generated by the annotation processor that were not updated after `@ArezComponent.type` was renamed to `@ArezComponent.name`.
* Introduce the parameter `@ArezComponent.service` parameter that used to drive default values of other parameters on the `@ArezComponent` annotation.
* Improve several error messages generated by the annotation processor when checking constraints about the types relating to injection.
* Stop the annotation processor from generating error messages when processing dagger enabled components that have public constructors synthesized by the compiler. This can occur when the type is public and no constructor is supplied by the user. Prior to this change the user would need to supply a no-op, package-access constructor to eliminate the error.
* Generate an error if a component has dagger integration enabled and injects a raw type, an array type or a wildcard type. Injecting these types is either poorly supported in dagger or a frequent source of confusion and there is rarely a use-case where there is not a better alternative. To eliminate these problems when integrating with Arez these scenarios have been disallowed.
* Generated an error if dagger integration is disabled but a constructor parameter is annotated with the `@javax.inject.Named` annotation.
* Generated an error if dagger integration is disabled but the component is annotated with an annotation that is annotated with the `@javax.inject.scope` annotation.
* Remove the `@Repository.inject` parameter as there is no project where it has ever been used.
* `@ArezComponent.disposeNotifier=AUTODETECT` will only resolve to `ENABLE` if the `@ArezComponent.service` parameter resolves to `DISABLE` rather resolving to `DISABLE` if the annotation `@javax.inject.Singleton` is present.
