---
title: Arez 0.169 released
author: Arez Project
authorURL: https://github.com/arez
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/arez/arez/compare/v0.168...v0.169)
[API Differences](/api-diff/?key=arez&old=0.168&new=0.169)

The release includes 2 non breaking API changes and 2 breaking API changes.

Changes in this release:

* Remove `arez.annotations.InjectMode` and related infrastructure as it is unused.
* Improve the error messages when the annotation processor detects that the presence of `javax.inject.Inject` on fields and/or methods.
* Generate a suppressable warning when a public constructor exists in an injectable type rather than a hard failure.
* Generate an error if a constructor parameter is a parameterized type and dagger injection is enabled.
* Generate an error if the component is a parameterized type and dagger injection is enabled.
* Fix several bugs that could manifest if `@ArezComponent` is attached to an interface.
* Add initial integration with the [Sting](https://sting-ioc.github.io/) dependency injection framework. This involved the `@ArezComponent.sting` and `@Repository.sting` parameters that control whether the integration is enabled. Arez will also detect several sting annotations such as `sting.Eager`, `sting.Typed` and `sting.Named` and copy them to the generated classes as appropriate. The integration uses the sting provider architecture so that adding an Arez component to the set of potential bindings for an injector is as simple as adding the class literal for the component to the appropriate `@Fragment.includes` or `@Injector.includes` parameter. The Sting integration is expected to be improved over time and streamlined and will likely replace Dagger in most applications.
