---
title: Arez 0.07 released
type: minor
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/arez/arez/compare/v0.06...v0.07)

Changes in this release:

#### Added
* **\[core\]** Added several helper methods to `ArezContext` to create actions without specifying mutation parameter.
* **\[processor\]** Introduce several protected access, helper methods that can be used by extensions when writing
  custom queries. Add minimal javadocs to the generated code to help guide extension developers.

#### Changed
* 💥 **\[processor\]** Change the return type of generated `findAll` method from a `java.util.Collection` to a
  `java.util.List`. This makes this class consistent with other query methods in the repository. Custom repository
  extensions should no longer use `findAll` to get the entities to query but should instead use the newly added
  method `entities()`
* 💥 **\[processor\]** Introduce a compile time setting `arez.repositories_return_immutables` that can be used to
  make all query methods that return a `List` in generated repositories return an unmodifiable list. This is enable
  by default if you include the `org.realityforge.arez.ArezDev` gwt module.

#### Fixed
* **\[processor\]** Fixed the grammar of invariant failure message in generated repositories when the
  user attempts to destroy an entity that it not in the repository.
* **\[core\]** Fixed a bug where the name of actions were not synthesized for actions created via
  `ArezConfig.safeAction(..)` when a null was passed by `ArezConfig.areNamesEnabled()` returned true.
