---
title: Arez 0.04 released
type: minor
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/arez/arez/compare/v0.03...v0.04)

Changes in this release:

##### Added
* **\[extras\]** Introduce the [`CssRules`](http://arez.github.io/arez/api/org/realityforge/arez/browser/extras/spy/CssRules.html)
  annotation to force IntelliJ IDEA to treat annotate content as css rules for code formatting, completion
  and validation purposes. Use this new annotation to annotate relevant constants and parameters in
  the `ConsoleSpyEventProcessor` class.
* **\[extras\]** Enhance the `ConsoleSpyEventProcessor` class so that javascript native objects passed as parameters
  to actions are formatted using `JSON.stringify` so that they produce more human friendly messages.
* **\[processor\]** Enhance the `ArezProcessor` to catch unexpected failures and report the crash to the user,
  directing the user to report the failure as a github issue.

##### Changed
* Usage of the invariant checking method call `Guards.invariant(...)` has been replaced by `Guards.apiInvariant(...)`
  in scenarios where the invariant failure is the result of the user of the Arez library supplying invalid data or
  invoking methods before checking whether the elements are in the correct state.
* 💥 **\[core\]** Rename the transaction methods in `ArezContext` that accepted the `Observer` as the tracker to `track`
  or `safeTrack` (depending on whether they throw an exception or not). The methods renamed are specifically:
  - `ArezContext.function(Observer, Function)` renamed to `ArezContext.track(Observer, Function)`
  - `ArezContext.safeFunction(Observer, SafeFunction)` renamed to `ArezContext.safeTrack(Observer, SafeFunction)`
  - `ArezContext.procedure(Observer, Procedure)` renamed to `ArezContext.track(Observer, Procedure)`
  - `ArezContext.safeProcedure(Observer, SafeProcedure)` renamed to `ArezContext.safeTrack(Observer, SafeProcedure)`
* 💥 **\[core\]** Rename the "action" style transaction methods in `ArezContext` to `action` or `safeAction` (depending
  on whether they throw an exception or not). The methods renamed are specifically:
  - `ArezContext.function(...)` renamed to `ArezContext.action(Observer, Function)`
  - `ArezContext.safeFunction(...)` renamed to `ArezContext.safeAction(Observer, SafeFunction)`
  - `ArezContext.procedure(...)` renamed to `ArezContext.action(Observer, Procedure)`
  - `ArezContext.safeProcedure(...)` renamed to `ArezContext.safeAction(Observer, SafeProcedure)`
* 💥 **\[annotations\]** Rename the `@Tracked` annotation to `@Track`.

##### Fixed
* **\[processor\]** Annotation processor previously generated catch blocks with the caught exception stored in a
  variable named `e`. This broke code where the action passed e as a parameter. This has been fixed by renaming the
  caught exception to use the standard name mangling used through the rest of the generated code. (i.e. prefixing
  the variable name with `$$arez$$_`)
