---
title: Arez 0.27 released
type: minor
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/arez/arez/compare/v0.26...v0.27)

Changes in this release:

#### Added
* **\[browser-extras\]** Enhance `NetworkStatus` component so that it exposes an observable property
  `lastChangedAt` that exposes the time at which online status last changed.
* **\[annotations\]** Add boolean parameter `dagger` to `@Repository` annotation that defaults to false. If
  the `dagger` parameter is set to true then a [Dagger2](https://google.github.io/dagger) module will be
  generated for the generated repository class.
* **\[docs\]** Define a placeholder Logo for project and add favicon support to website.
* **\[docs\]** Move the documentation to a separate repository `https://github.com/arez/arez.github.io` so
  that it is published to `https://arez.github.io` rather than `https://arez.github.io/arez`.
* **\[docs\]** Add basic documentation of repositories.
* **\[core\]** Expose the method `ArezContext.isTransactionActive()` with public access.
* **\[processor\]** Treat the `Disposable.isDisposed()` method on enhanced component classes as "optionally"
  observable. If a transaction is currently active then it is treated as observable otherwise it is treated
  as a non-observable property.

#### Fixed
* **\[annotations\]** Fix the documentation on `@OnDepsChanged` annotation to correctly describe the default
  naming convention.
* **\[processor\]** Enhance the processor to remove the direct dependency on the `arez-component` and
  `arez-annotations` artifact. If the `arez-processor` is added to a separate `-processorpath` during
  compilation, the `arez-component` no longer needs to be added to the `-processorpath`.

#### Changed
* Upgrade the version of javapoet to 1.8.0.
* 💥 **\[processor\]** Changed the naming convention of the classes generated from nested static classes.
  Previously the name components were separated by a `$` but this is the same convention that is used by
  nested classes and thus a nested class could have aname collision with a generated class. Instead the
  `_` character has been used to separate name components.
* **\[processor\]** Change the enhanced component classes to not cache the `ArezContext` in single zone
  systems. Instead single-zone systems use `Arez.context()` to get the context which allows GWT/GCC to
  identify the `context` field as unused and eliminate it.
